Debugging means "to get rid of bugs". A bug is an 
occurrence when the program does not work in the 
intended manner. When program processes are 
stopped and errors occur, these are also known 
as bugs.

In other words, debugging is finding the origin 
of bugs and fixing them.


The Debug Process:
Step 1: Grasp and understand the details of the error.
Step 2: Predict the cause or origin of the error.
Step 3: Check your prediction step by step and confirm the issue. 

Welcome to the debugging course!
First, you'll learn how to debug step by step.

Que: Let's understand the details of the error!
An error message that contains the specific content of the error 
is being displayed (in d browser).

Next, we'll check the errors that are displayed in the terminal.

Error messages can contain information that is necessary for debugging
For example, this error message contains the location of where the error is triggered, as shown below.
TypeError: /home/progate/list-app/views/index.ejs:24

2. Let's predict the cause!
Think about the cause of the error and make your own predictions.
We're trying to use an iterative method on an array, but based on the content of the error message, we can assume that the foreach call may be wrong.


3. Let's see if our prediction is correct!
Let's check out the foreach method.
Check out the foreach method and find out what's wrong with it by doing the following:
・Search for JavaScript foreach on the Web.

Can you find the mistake?
Rather than foreach, the correct method is forEach 
Now it's time to fix the code.
Fix the items.foreach part with the correct method.

Examples of Errors:
Let's fix the problem of not being able to access the Top page. (ds page can't be reached)

1. Let's understand the details of the error!
First, let's check the errors that appear on the browser.
"This page can't be reached" is being displayed.
Next, let's check the errors that appear in the terminal.

Let's analyze the error message.
The first line shows the location where the error is triggered, as shown below.
/home/progate/list-app/app.js:38
  );
  ^
There seems to be an error around the closing parentheses ) in the connection.query code. The error message also describes the cause as shown below.

SyntaxError means an error in the spelling or grammar of the programming language.

2. Let's predict the cause!
Since it's a syntax error, we can expect the program is written incorrectly.
Also, the content of the error tells us that something else should be written instead of ).

3. Let's see if our prediction is correct!
Can you find the mistake?
If you look near line 38 in app.js, you'll see that the closing curly braces } is missing.

If there are mistakes in app.js like in this exercise, errors can occur when launching the server with app.listen and no URLs will be accessible.






#Progate @progateEN @dev_careers #dev_careers
