1. What is the Web?
The URL indicates the "server's location" as well as the "location of the 
information within the server"


          server locatn/  locatn of d info within d server
https://prog-8.com/about


2. Client and Server
A web page's HTML is stored in the server. The client that 
displays the HTML is called a browser.



Understanding More about Web Applications:
A website that is made purely with HTML is static, and will 
always show the same content unless the developer updates it.

A website with interactive functionalities is known as a Web Application.

Applications that are used by many in the world, are web applications that are integrated with servers and databases.

A web application is an application that utilizes the mechanisms of the web. It's slightly different from your applications on iOS and Android.
From here, let's remember that a web application is something you use from a browser!

3. The Web Application Mechanism
How does a web application function?
A database in terms of web applications is a tool that allows the storage of text and number data.


Express:
is a framework for Node.js dt provides efficient
tools for developing web apps

With Node.js, there are many useful tools that you can use called packages. Express is one of them.

There is a system called npm (Node Package Manager) that lets you use packages. With npm, you can share and download packages. 

The listen Method
To start the server, we need to add the listen method to app.js, then run it in the terminal using the following command: node file_name.


Routing: 
Determining how the app responds to a request to a particular URL is called routing.

req and res:
Each route can handle a request with a function, known as a route handler, that has req (request) and res (response) as parameters. These two parameters will hold information about the request and response.

Displaying a View File
You can specify which view file to show on the browser using the res.render function.


else
By using the else statement, you can create a control flow "if X, then Y, but if not then Z". You do this by adding some code you want to run when the condition of the if statement is false.

else if
If you want to add alternative conditions when the condition of an if statement is false, use else if. The control flow, "if A then B, if X then Y, if neither then Z" can be created using else if!



#Progate @progateEN @dev_careers #dev_careers

